so in this video we are going to start talking
about the Tkinter module now some
people will pronounce this as Tkinter but is spelt T-K-I-N-T-E-R so I'm gonna
pronounce this Tkinter now this module
and Python provides access to the TK
widget tool kit and really what that means
is that it allows gui programs to be created
now the TK toolkit was developed to work with
scripting language called TCL and the
tkinter Python binding works by
actively sending TCL code to a TCL
interpreter but that's actually embedded
in the Python interpreters so we don't need to load any
thing extra now there are other graphic
libraries available but tkinter
has the advantage that it's part of the
standard Python language and part of
and its therefore
available without installing anything
else which is pretty handy but also has
a disadvantage in that the documentation
isn't brilliant and the Python
documentation itself even states that
the documentation isn't brilliant but that situation does
seem to have improved and there's been an
increased interest in tk with new versions
for both it and TCL released in 2015
and as you search the internet for information
on TK you might find references to it
looking dated the but Tkinter version 8.5
which was released in 2015 has added
something interesting called themed
widgets and they provide a native
look and feel for each operating system
and I think that's both JP and myself
think that seriously cool and the good
thing is that those examples are some
nice interface is produced with it if
you do a bit of searching with that said
there's also a lot of quite cryptic
information available so what we gonna
do is we're gonna start by checking out
some links that are used for it when
starting out with tkinter and this will all be
available in the Resources section of
the video as well by now you should
probably have the Python standard
library link bookmarked if you
haven't I suggest you do that and what I'm going
to do is take you their and the main access area is docs.python.org
but you can see here we are in the sub folder for tk.html which is the course
discussion about the graphical user
interfaces with TK and one of yhe first
things that we notice when we got here was
it
the start talking about alternative
strait away and doesn't give you a lot of confidence
but really I think that's more an unfortunate phrasing rather than a
deliberate criticism tkinter because they have been embedded to Python so they got
some confidence in how robust and
platform-independent it is for those
reasons that's one site we suggest you go
to some good information in their there's also another
link and again these links will be in
the Resources section now if
you're creating tkinter UI this is a
quite a useful site it's really short
in code examples but what it does do well
is describing the various features of
TK and the individual widgets do make
sure you check that it's really going to be
worth while for you to have a look at that and
tk docs is another one second to last link
I want to show you tkdocs.com
as you can see there on the screen
this got a really good tutorial section and you know it's got examples
in TCL Ruby Pearl and Python so if you get
stuck trying to use a particular widget
then the tutorials in this
section they will be enough to get
going so of course you can
always ask questions on here as well
and we will get back to you and try to
help you out but there's another option there
when you actually searching for
information and lastly the last thing link
I want to show you now is the Wikipedia entry so that can be quite useful to look at as well their is the link on the screen
and that can be useful just to give you a brief
history of TK if you are into that sort of
thing and how it really developed
initially let's go back now and start putting some code
together so we can start our introduction
by making sure that tkinter is
correctly installed and working with this version of Python whichever
version you are running..... see that's come up OK and then we
can do a print.....
.....
.....so that will pop
out a little gui so if you follow the
Python instructions at the start of
this course you should see either a version
8.5 or 8.6 pop up as well as a small
window that we've added a code to do on line 6 and we just run this to make sure it does
work 8.5 and let me bring this to
the middle there now just open up a
little bit you can see their that's working quite nicely its got a little Click Me! button and a quite button and that's how it looks on
a Mac but if you're running on Linux or
are running on a Windows machine you'll see
a slightly different look and feel on
your version then click on click me you can see how its
putting the double square brackets around it when
I click just to confirm that it's
actually doing something and click on quit
as well so tk version 8.6 is also
available for Python two if your working
with Python 2 but the
module name has a capital T
now a useful technique that you can use to
cater for both versions is an attempt to
or to attempt an operation for your main
version and trap an exception and
add the corresponding code for the other
version so we're gonna be looking at
exceptions in detail later but here is one now that you can case
further you might find interesting with
if you want to check out tkinter with
Python 2 so you go about doing that
as follows what we do is we wrapped the
import around a try so....
...which essentially would mean that you running Python 2 at that point so that's the
case then put import....noting that its the same as the
module name on line 2 and then at that point
we should find now the code works correctly
so you can see what its doing now it's
trying to import Tkinter on Python 3
that import should work and
therefore the accept line won't be
processed and it will come down straight
to line 6 but if you run this on Python 2 the
code on line 2 will fail and it will come to
line 4 and I mentioned that tkinter had
to be an uppercase T we unable it so that
we can actually refer to it as a
lowercase T and so then we should be
able to run and again will just confirm this
runs and for some reason I'm not
sure why the GUI a screen is not coming
through so if I just go through and delete the code temporarily run that
again not sure why but the second time
we are running this we are getting a bit of a problem so what
I'm going to do is to put those changes back in
and close down and restart
IntelliJ ok so it started up again
might have something to do with the Mac
platform that's doing that because I would
have thought that it should just working
again will open up tkinterdemo again
and we're going to leave in the code
with the try except
and see whether it works again so that's weird I'm not sure we aren't getting that little pop up window I'm sure that the code
is ok so what I'm going to do is just continue
and will add another way to open a
window and just to see whether if it works
so type....
.....
.....if we do that we should find
this doesn't work so it exited and
nothing's happened and the reason in
this particular case it hasn't worked is
what we need to do is in this scenario
is we need to pass control over to Tk by
calling the main method on our top
window because main method handles the
event processing that the GUI needs in order to
function so we would actually need to
add this code....
and by doing that we've now pass control over
to Tk and let it do the works so if we run
that we should get to see that it works
and there's the Windows so I'm just wondering
whether the other window was actually
there as well so I'm gonna close that window and
then now and let's go back to the
code again and run that again and
and now minimize it again the windows was there
so probably that's what was
happening along for some reason it's
because I'm running this on full screen
when I'm recording the videos were not seeing the
whole screen but you can see that clearly
we've got the main loop their but also the
other thing to note is the program
still running but the program hasn't
completed it hasn't come back and sort of said
program exited with condition 0
whatever it normally comes up with
go back to their and close this down you will notice that processes has finished just very quickly what
I'll do is undo these changes and come back and put in the other
code that we had in before the
Tkinter.....to see whether
it was just a case of the window being
hidden
before when we are running it because that code should work so we run that again you don't see the code but if we minimize
and there's our annoying little window
that is hidden from the backgrounds so
not sure that's a feature of MAC OSX what because obviously the first
time I run this it actually popped up
over the top of IntelliJ and then after
that it didn't so I'm going to quite out of that and get the code back again and we can continue on ok so just undo that
and put the original code back in there so
you can see what that code their did and it
actually popped up that little window
the titles is what appeared on the top of
the screen and the geometry was the size
of the window in this case 640 pixels wide
by 480 pixels down and it's probably
interesting there that's a little bit
unusual is the geometries using a string
not sort of passing numbers you think
normally when you sending a resolution
and certainly if you've use other GUIs in the past done you
would pass a number of some sort of
number maybe a float or certainly an
integer to specify the width and the height but in this case its actually a string
that we are passing so the geometry
method expect a string containing
four components so we got 2 in it at the moment so
we got the width the height but its also we
can also specify the left and the top
offsets from the edge of the screen now
the width and height are separated by x as you
saw and really look like
the normal way of expressing screen resolution you
normally talk in these terms 640 by 480 but the
2 offset are separate from the size by each other by using either plus or minus
and I'll just show you what I mean by
adding that so put....
..as an example there so the
windows same height but is now 8 pixels in from the
left edge of the screen and 400 pixels
down now if you used minus instead of + we get 8
pixels in from the right edge of the
screen and 400 pixels up from the bottom
and you can mix plus and minus as specified from the
position of the 4 edges
run this again to confirm it works and minimize again there is our
window that's down further you can see now
clearly it listed pixels here to the
left hand side which before was
flushed over like that we now got those pixels over their now this is a good spot to
finish this video because what we need
to start talking about next is geometry
managers and this is where you can use to set up the application widgets
that can be placed into these areas or
the geometry managers and the probably
the most useful ones gonna be the grid
manager but in any event I'll start
talking about that and showing you some
examples of how that works in the next video